Now we will look at how we can compose multiple React components together. Imagine you are building an app and have created three components: a Navbar, Dashboard, and Footer.

To compose these components together, you could create an App parent component which renders each of these three components as children. To render a component as a child in a React component, you include the component name written as a custom HTML tag in the JSX. For example, in the render method you could write:

return (
 <App>
  <Navbar />
  <Dashboard />
  <Footer />
 </App>
)
When React encounters a custom HTML tag that references another component (a component name wrapped in < /> like in this example), it renders the markup for that component in the location of the tag. This should illustrate the parent/child relationship between the App component and the Navbar, Dashboard, and Footer.



The last challenge showed a simple way to compose two components, but there are many different ways you can compose components with React.

Component composition is one of React's powerful features. When you work with React, it is important to start thinking about your user interface in terms of components like the App example in the last challenge. You break down your UI into its basic building blocks, and those pieces become the components. This helps to separate the code responsible for the UI from the code responsible for handling your application logic. It can greatly simplify the development and maintenance of complex projects.



However, state updates may be asynchronous - this means React may batch multiple setState() calls into a single update. This means you can't rely on the previous value of this.state or this.props when calculating the next value. So, you should not use code like this:

this.setState({
  counter: this.state.counter + this.props.increment
});
Instead, you should pass setState a function that allows you to access state and props. Using a function with setState guarantees you are working with the most current values of state and props. This means that the above should be rewritten as:

this.setState((state, props) => ({
  counter: state.counter + props.increment
}));
You can also use a form without props if you need only the state:

this.setState(state => ({
  counter: state.counter + 1
}));
Note that you have to wrap the object literal in parentheses, otherwise JavaScript thinks it's a block of code.


Your application may have more complex interactions between state and the rendered UI. For example, form control elements for text input, such as input and textarea, maintain their own state in the DOM as the user types. With React, you can move this mutable state into a React component's state. The user's input becomes part of the application state, so React controls the value of that input field. Typically, if you have React components with input fields the user can type into, it will be a controlled input form.


Pass a Callback as Props
You can pass state as props to child components, but you're not limited to passing data. You can also pass handler functions or any method that's defined on a React component to a child component. This is how you allow child components to interact with their parent components. You pass methods to a child just like a regular prop. It's assigned a name and you have access to that method name under this.props in the child component.

There are three components outlined in the code editor. The MyApp component is the parent that will render the GetInput and RenderInput child components. Add the GetInput component to the render method in MyApp, then pass it a prop called input assigned to inputValue from MyApp's state. Also create a prop called handleChange and pass the input handler handleChange to it.

Next, add RenderInput to the render method in MyApp, then create a prop called input and pass the inputValue from state to it. Once you are finished you will be able to type in the input field in the GetInput component, which then calls the handler method in its parent via props. This updates the input in the state of the parent, which is passed as props to both children. Observe how the data flows between the components and how the single source of truth remains the state of the parent component. Admittedly, this example is a bit contrived, but should serve to illustrate how data and callbacks can be passed between React components.

